# Microplastic-Detection-using-Computer-Vision

Marine ecosystems have long been seriously threatened by microplastic pollution that escalates harmful impacts to marine life, human health, and global biodiversity. Manual detection and segregation of microplastics from environmental samples often turn out to be inefficient and also highly susceptible to human error. The project contributes to an automated system in the detection of microplastics through advanced image analysis technologies backed up by computer vision and deep learning. For identification of microplastics, images of samples subjected to marine environment are analyzed based on size, shape, and color features. For detection, the MobileNetV2 model is applied as a backbone that has been pre-trained on ImageNet and fine-tuned to fit the binary classification problem. They train their model on an augmented dataset to enable better generalization performance on an unseen sample set. Performance metrics include accuracy, precision, recall, and F1-score to measure the efficiency of the model. This automated approach to detecting microplastics, therefore, can have some huge potential for improving on the speed, scalability, and accuracy of environmental monitoring programs to alleviate this global issue of growing marine plastic pollution. The work will be oriented towards providing valuable insights into the dynamics of microplastic contamination in marine ecosystems further and offering potential means for more efficient conservation efforts in this respect.
